
QUESTION & ANSWERS


Ques. What is squashfs file system?

Ans.When creating tiny-sized and embedded Linux systems, every byte of the storage device (floppy, flash disk, etc.) is very important, so compression is used everywhere possible. Also, compressed file systems are frequently needed for archiving purposes. For huge public archives, as well as for personal media archives, this is essential.
SquashFS is distributed as a Linux kernel source patch (which enables SquashFS read support in your kernel), the mksquashfs tool, which creates squashed file systems (in a file or on a block device) and the unsquashfs tool, which extracts multiple files from an existing squashed file system.

Ques. What are /dev/loop and /dev/tty?
Ans. 

Ques. What are Linux Signals?

Ans. A signal is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux systems in response to some condition. Upon receipt of a signal, a process may take action.
A signal is just like an interrupt; when it is generated at the user level, a call is made to the kernel of the OS, which then acts accordingly.
There are two types of signals:
    • Maskable: signals which can be changed or ignored by the user (e.g., Ctrl+C).
    • Non-Maskable: signals which cannot be changed or ignored by the user. These typically occur when the user is signaled for non-recoverable hardware errors.
      
Ques. Purpose of Hidden files.

Ans. Hidden files are usually system or application files, concealed to prevent accidental changes. This guide will show you how to display and work with hidden files in Linux. Note: Some directories require administrator, root, or sudo privileges to access.


Ques. How ext4 fs is faster?

Ans. Ext4 is also said to be slightly faster in sequential reads and writes.When it comes to file checking, EXT4 is quicker because unallocated blocks of data are marked as such and are simply skipped during disk check operations.


Ques. What is swap & swap memory?

Ans. Swap is a space on a disk that is used when the amount of physical RAM memory is full. When a Linux system runs out of RAM, inactive pages are moved from the RAM to the swap space.
Memory swapping is a computer technology that enables an operating system to provide more memory to a running application or process than is available in physical random access memory (RAM).
Swap space in Linux is used when the amount of physical memory (RAM) is full. If the system needs more memory resources and the RAM is full, inactive pages in memory are moved to the swap space. While swap space can help machines with a small amount of RAM, it should not be considered a replacement for more RAM.

Ques. How to mount a file system?

Ans.  To mount a file system, we use the mount command. We use the mount command with the file system and the mount point. The mount point becomes the root directory for the mounted file system.

Ques. ZFS use case.

Ques. Revisit Linux Directory structure and each directory of it.

Ques. How to check which process is running on which port?

Ans. netstat -lntp


Ques. What is Unix time sharing?
Ans. UNIX is a multi-processing and multi-user time sharing operating system.UNIX provides a great range of programs and services that have made the UNIX system environment popular among users. This environment contains the command interpreter shell, text processing packages, the source code control, a powerful mailing system and many more. The importance of UNIX is its simplicity and consistency.

Ques. What are control groups?

Ans. A control group (cgroup) is a Linux kernel feature that limits, accounts for, and isolates the resource usage (CPU, memory, disk I/O, network, and so on) of a collection of processes.Cgroups are special mechanisms provided by the Linux kernel which allows us to allocate a kind of resources like processor time, number of processes per group, amount of memory per control group or combination of such resources for a process or set of processes. 


Ques. Difference between sbin & usr/sbin.

Ans. sbin:this directory holds commands needed to boot the system, but which are  usually   not executed by normal users.
     usr/sbin:This directory contains program binaries for system administration which are not essential for the boot process, for mounting /usr, or for system.



